Add nRF700x support (#8158)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: samples/wifi/shell/README.rst

.. _wifi_sample:

Wi-Fi: nRF chipsets
###################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

This sample allows testing Nordic Wi-Fi chipsets.

Requirements
************

The sample supports the following development kit:

.. table-from-rows:: /includes/sample_board_rows.txt
   :header: heading
   :rows: nrf7002dk_nrf5340_cpuapp, nrf7002dk_nrf5340_cpuapp_ns, nrf7002dk_nrf5340_cpunet

Overview
********

You can use this sample as a starting point to experiment and test Nordic Wi-Fi chipsets.

> The sample can be used to perform all Wi-Fi operations in 2.4/5/6GHz bands depending on the capabilities supported in the underlying
> chipset. You can associate and ping to any Wi-Fi capable access point in STA mode. It can also support other Wi-Fi modes of operation
> depending on the underlying chipset capabilities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The sample can be used to perform all Wi-Fi operations in 2.4/5/6GHz bands depending on the capabilities supported in the underlying chipset.
You can associate and ping to any Wi-Fi capable access point in STA mode.
It can also support other Wi-Fi modes of operation depending on the underlying chipset capabilities.
```
Remember, each sentence on a separate line. Can we open the abbreviation STA (and perhaps add it to the glossary)?

Building and running
********************

.. |sample path| replace:: :file:`samples/wifi/shell`

.. include:: /includes/build_and_run_ns.txt

Currently, the following configurations are supported:

* 7002 DK + QSPI
* 7002 EK + SPIM

> You can build for the nRF7002 DK by using the following command::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can build for the nRF7002 DK using the following command::
```

   west build -b nrf7002dk_nrf5340_cpuapp

> You can build for the nRF7002 EK by using the following command::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can build for the nRF7002 EK using the following command::
```

   west build -b nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp -- -DSHIELD=nrf7002_ek

Testing
=======

|test_sample|

#. |connect_kit|
#. |connect_terminal|

> #. Do a scan for the Wi-FI networks using below command, the output should be similar::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Scan for the Wi-FI networks. The output should be similar to this example::
```

      uart:~$ wpa_cli scan
      Scan requested
      Num  | SSID                             (len) | Chan | RSSI | Sec
      1    | dlink-7D64                       10    | 1    | 0    | WPA/WPA2
      2    | abcd_527_24                      11    | 4    | 0    | Open
      3    | ASUS_RTAX88U11g                  15    | 3    | 0    | WPA/WPA2
      4    | TP-Link_6BA8                     12    | 9    | 0    | WPA/WPA2

> #. Connect to a preferred network using below command::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Connect to a preferred network::
```

      uart:~$ wpa_cli connect ASUS_RTAX88U11g <passphrase>

> #. Wait for sometime and check the connection status, if all works well then it should like below::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Wait for some time and check the connection status. If all works well, you should see something like this::
```

      uart:~$ wpa_cli status
      Reply: bssid=c0:06:c3:1d:cf:9e
      freq=0
      ssid=ASUS_RTAX88U11g
      id=0
      mode=station
      pairwise_cipher=CCMP
      group_cipher=CCMP
      key_mgmt=WPA2-PSK
      pmf=1
      mgmt_group_cipher=BIP
      wpa_state=COMPLETED
      ip_address=192.168.0.206
      address=f4:ce:36:00:00:16

> #. Initiate a ping and verify data connectivity, an example is show below::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Initiate a ping and verify data connectivity::
```

.. _wifi_sample:

> Wi-Fi: nRF chipsets

Author: It is now, modified to `Wi-Fi: Shell`

###################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

This sample allows testing Nordic Wi-Fi chipsets.

Requirements
************

The sample supports the following development kit:

.. table-from-rows:: /includes/sample_board_rows.txt
   :header: heading

>    :rows: nrf7002dk_nrf5340_cpuapp, nrf7002dk_nrf5340_cpuapp_ns, nrf7002dk_nrf5340_cpunet

Author: I found them, and I guess we can add some build tests, but unable to find a link explaining the syntax/schema, can you please point if you know?

>    :rows: nrf7002dk_nrf5340_cpuapp, nrf7002dk_nrf5340_cpuapp_ns, nrf7002dk_nrf5340_cpunet

Reviewer 2: @gmarull @umapraseeda do we have any link explaining this?

>    :rows: nrf7002dk_nrf5340_cpuapp, nrf7002dk_nrf5340_cpuapp_ns, nrf7002dk_nrf5340_cpunet

Author: Fixed the table and also added sample.yaml with supported board combinations, it seems to work, resolving.

Overview
********

You can use this sample as a starting point to experiment and test Nordic Wi-Fi chipsets.

The sample can be used to perform all Wi-Fi operations in 2.4/5/6GHz bands depending on the capabilities supported in the underlying

> chipset.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

You can associate and ping to any Wi-Fi capable access point in :abbr:`STA (Station)` mode.

It can also support other Wi-Fi modes of operation depending on the underlying chipset capabilities.

Building and running
********************

.. |sample path| replace:: :file:`samples/wifi/shell`

.. include:: /includes/build_and_run_ns.txt

Currently, the following configurations are supported:

* 7002 DK + QSPI
* 7002 EK + SPIM

You can build for the nRF7002 DK using the following command::

   west build -b nrf7002dk_nrf5340_cpuapp

You can build for the nRF7002 EK using the following command::

   west build -b nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp -- -DSHIELD=nrf7002_ek

Testing
=======

> 

Reviewer 2: What about listing all the wpa_cli commands available?

|test_sample|

#. |connect_kit|
#. |connect_terminal|

> #. Scan for the Wi-FI networks. The output should be similar to this example::

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. Scan for the Wi-FI networks using the following command::

      wpa_cli scan

   The output should be similar to the following::
```

>       uart:~$ wpa_cli scan

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

      Scan requested
      Num  | SSID                             (len) | Chan | RSSI | Sec
      1    | dlink-7D64                       10    | 1    | 0    | WPA/WPA2
      2    | abcd_527_24                      11    | 4    | 0    | Open
      3    | ASUS_RTAX88U11g                  15    | 3    | 0    | WPA/WPA2
      4    | TP-Link_6BA8                     12    | 9    | 0    | WPA/WPA2

> #. Connect to a preferred network::

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. Connect to a preferred network using the following command::
```

>       uart:~$ wpa_cli connect ASUS_RTAX88U11g <passphrase>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      wpa_cli connect <SSID> <passphrase>

   ``<SSID>`` is the SSID of the network you want to connect to, and ``<passphrase>`` is its passphrase.
```

> #. Wait for some time and check the connection status. fIf all works well, you should see something like this::

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. Check the connection status after a while, using the following command::

      wpa_cli status

   If the connection is established, you should see an output similar to the following::
```

>       uart:~$ wpa_cli status

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

      Reply: bssid=c0:06:c3:1d:cf:9e
      freq=0
      ssid=ASUS_RTAX88U11g
      id=0
      mode=station
      pairwise_cipher=CCMP
      group_cipher=CCMP
      key_mgmt=WPA2-PSK
      pmf=1
      mgmt_group_cipher=BIP
      wpa_state=COMPLETED
      ip_address=192.168.0.206
      address=f4:ce:36:00:00:16

> #. Initiate a ping and verify data connectivity::

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. Initiate a ping and verify data connectivity using the following command::

      net dns <resolved hostname>

```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   See the following example::

```

      uart:~$ net dns google.com
      Query for 'google.com' sent.
      dns: 142.250.74.46
      dns: All results received

      uart:~$ net ping 10 142.250.74.46
      PING 142.250.74.46
      28 bytes from 142.250.74.46 to 192.168.50.199: icmp_seq=0 ttl=113 time=191 ms
      28 bytes from 142.250.74.46 to 192.168.50.199: icmp_seq=1 ttl=113 time=190 ms

>       28 bytes from 142.250.74.46 to 192.168.50.199: icmp_seq=2 ttl=113 time=190 ms

Reviewer 2: Please list all the sample's dependencies at the bottom of the document, using the following syntax

Dependencies
************

This sample uses the following |NCS| libraries:

* :ref:``
* :ref:``

This sample uses the following `sdk-nrfxlib`_ libraries:

* :ref:``

This sample uses the following `sdk-zephyr`_ libraries:

* :ref:``

Reviewer 2: You are right on that section being marked as optional. It was initially intended as optional because there might not necessarily be dependencies. However, if there are any, these should be listed. Probably this point should be clarified in the template.

Author: OK, will add.

.. _wifi_shell:

Wi-Fi: Shell
############

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

This sample allows testing Nordic Semiconductor's Wi-Fi chipsets.

Requirements
************

The sample supports the following development kit:

.. table-from-sample-yaml::

Overview
********

This sample can perform all Wi-Fi operations in 2.4GHz and 5GHz bands depending on the capabilities supported in the underlying chipset.

Using this sample, the development kit can associate with, and ping to, any Wi-Fi capable access point in :abbr:`STA (Station)` mode.

> 

Reviewer 2: This should really be the last edit needed

> 

Author: Thanks a lot, this is much better.

Building and running
********************

.. |sample path| replace:: :file:`samples/wifi/shell`

.. include:: /includes/build_and_run_ns.txt

Currently, the following configurations are supported:

* 7002 DK + QSPI
* 7002 EK + SPIM

To build for the nRF7002 DK, use the ``nrf7002dk_nrf5340_cpuapp`` build target.
The following is an example of the CLI command::

   west build -b nrf7002dk_nrf5340_cpuapp

To build for the nRF7002 EK, use the ``nrf7002dk_nrf5340_cpuapp`` build target with the ``SHIELD`` CMake option set to ``nrf7002_ek``.
The following is an example of the CLI command::

   west build -b nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp -- -DSHIELD=nrf7002_ek

See also :ref:`cmake_options` for instructions on how to provide CMake optio

Testing
=======

|test_sample|

#. |connect_kit|
#. |connect_terminal|
#. Scan for the Wi-FI networks using the following command::

>       uart:~$ wpa_cli scan

Author: I will remove UART, but its the norm to use a shell prompt ($/#) for any commands.

>       uart:~$ wpa_cli scan

Reviewer 2: We usually omit the shell prompts in the commands listed in the NCS docs.
If you think these should really be visible, we can discuss this in teams (as that would require quite a few changes in the docs)

   The output should be similar to the following::

      Scan requested
      Num  | SSID                             (len) | Chan | RSSI | Sec
      1    | dlink-7D64                       10    | 1    | 0    | WPA/WPA2
      2    | abcd_527_24                      11    | 4    | 0    | Open
      3    | ASUS_RTAX88U11g                  15    | 3    | 0    | WPA/WPA2
      4    | TP-Link_6BA8                     12    | 9    | 0    | WPA/WPA2

#. Connect to a preferred network using the following command::

      uart:~$ wpa_cli connect <SSID> <passphrase>

   ``<SSID>`` is the SSID of the network you want to connect to, and ``<passphrase>`` is its passphrase.

#. Check the connection status after a while, using the following command::

      uart:~$ wpa_cli status

   If the connection is established, you should see an output similar to the following::

      Reply: bssid=c0:06:c3:1d:cf:9e
      freq=0
      ssid=ASUS_RTAX88U11g
      id=0
      mode=station
      pairwise_cipher=CCMP
      group_cipher=CCMP
      key_mgmt=WPA2-PSK
      pmf=1
      mgmt_group_cipher=BIP
      wpa_state=COMPLETED
      ip_address=192.168.0.206
      address=f4:ce:36:00:00:16

> #. Initiate a ping and verify data connectivity using the following command.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. Initiate a ping and verify data connectivity using the following command::
```

> 

Reviewer 2: The point here was to highlight the parameter in the subcommand in a generic way instead of using "google.com". Feel free to use one that you believe is the most technically correct.

   See the following example::

      uart:~$ net dns google.com
      Query for 'google.com' sent.
      dns: 142.250.74.46
      dns: All results received

      uart:~$ net ping 10 142.250.74.46
      PING 142.250.74.46
      28 bytes from 142.250.74.46 to 192.168.50.199: icmp_seq=0 ttl=113 time=191 ms
      28 bytes from 142.250.74.46 to 192.168.50.199: icmp_seq=1 ttl=113 time=190 ms
      28 bytes from 142.250.74.46 to 192.168.50.199: icmp_seq=2 ttl=113 time=190 ms

> #. See the list of all available commands::
> 
>       uart:~$ wpa_cli
>       wpa_cli - WPA supplicant commands
>       Subcommands:
>       scan             :Scan AP
>       connect          :"<SSID>"
>                         Passphrase (optional: valid only for secured SSIDs)>
>                         KEY_MGMT (optional: 0-None, 1-WPA2, 2-WPA2-256, 3-WPA3)
>       add_network      :"Add Network network id/number"
>       set_network      :"Set Network params"
>       set              :"Set Global params"
>       get              :"Get Global params"
>       enable_network   :"Enable Network"
>       remove_network   :"Remove Network"
>       get_network      :"Get Network"
>       select_network   :"Select Network which will be enabled; rest of the networks
>                         will be disabled"
>       disable_network  :""
>       disconnect       :""
>       reassociate      :""
>       status           :"Get client status"
>       bssid            :"Associate with this BSSID"
>       sta_autoconnect  :""
>       signal_poll      :""
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

This should be moved to a separate section

Reviewer 2: Posting soon another comment with the section located elsewhere in the doc

Dependencies
============
This sample uses the following `sdk-nrfxlib`_ library:

* :ref:`nrfxlib:nrf_security`

> This sample uses below modules that can be found in the following location in the |NCS| folder structure:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This sample also uses modules that can be found in the following locations in the |NCS| folder structure:
```

.. _wifi_shell:

Wi-Fi: Shell
############

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

> This sample allows testing Nordic Semiconductor's Wi-Fi chipsets.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This sample allows you to test Nordic Semiconductor's Wi-Fi chipsets.
```

The sample supports the following development kit:

.. table-from-sample-yaml::

Overview
********

This sample can perform all Wi-Fi operations in the 2.4GHz and 5GHz bands depending on the capabilities supported in the underlying chipset.

Using this sample, the development kit can associate with, and ping to, any Wi-Fi capable access point in :abbr:`STA (Station)` mode.

Building and running
********************

.. |sample path| replace:: :file:`samples/wifi/shell`

.. include:: /includes/build_and_run_ns.txt

Currently, the following configurations are supported:

* 7002 DK + QSPI
* 7002 EK + SPIM

To build for the nRF7002 DK, use the ``nrf7002dk_nrf5340_cpuapp`` build target.
The following is an example of the CLI command::

   west build -b nrf7002dk_nrf5340_cpuapp

To build for the nRF7002 EK, use the ``nrf7002dk_nrf5340_cpuapp`` build target with the ``SHIELD`` CMake option set to ``nrf7002_ek``.
The following is an example of the CLI command::

   west build -b nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp -- -DSHIELD=nrf7002_ek

See also :ref:`cmake_options` for instructions on how to provide CMake options.

Testing
=======

|test_sample|

#. |connect_kit|
#. |connect_terminal|

> #. Scan for the Wi-FI networks using the following command::

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. Scan for the Wi-FI networks in range using the following command::
```

     wpa_cli scan

   The output should be similar to the following::

      Scan requested
      Num  | SSID                             (len) | Chan | RSSI | Sec
      1    | dlink-7D64                       10    | 1    | 0    | WPA/WPA2
      2    | abcd_527_24                      11    | 4    | 0    | Open
      3    | ASUS_RTAX88U11g                  15    | 3    | 0    | WPA/WPA2
      4    | TP-Link_6BA8                     12    | 9    | 0    | WPA/WPA2

> #. Connect to a preferred network using the following command::

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. Connect to your preferred network using the following command::
```

#. Check the connection status after a while, using the following command::

     wpa_cli status

   If the connection is established, you should see an output similar to the following::

      Reply: bssid=c0:06:c3:1d:cf:9e
      freq=0
      ssid=ASUS_RTAX88U11g
      id=0
      mode=station
      pairwise_cipher=CCMP
      group_cipher=CCMP
      key_mgmt=WPA2-PSK
      pmf=1
      mgmt_group_cipher=BIP
      wpa_state=COMPLETED
      ip_address=192.168.0.206
      address=f4:ce:36:00:00:16

#. Initiate a ping and verify data connectivity using the following commands::

     net dns <hostname>
     net ping <resolved hostname>

   See the following example::

     net dns google.com
      Query for 'google.com' sent.
      dns: 142.250.74.46
      dns: All results received

     net ping 10 142.250.74.46
      PING 142.250.74.46
      28 bytes from 142.250.74.46 to 192.168.50.199: icmp_seq=0 ttl=113 time=191 ms
      28 bytes from 142.250.74.46 to 192.168.50.199: icmp_seq=1 ttl=113 time=190 ms
      28 bytes from 142.250.74.46 to 192.168.50.199: icmp_seq=2 ttl=113 time=190 ms

Supported CLI commands

> ======================

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
======================

```

> ``wpa_cli`` is WPA supplicant command and supports the following UART CLI subcommands:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
``wpa_cli`` is the WPA supplicant command and supports the following UART CLI subcommands:
```
